---
title: "More Movies?"
permalink: "/blog/{{ title | slugify }}/"
tags: "blogs"
layout: "base.njk"
date: 2024-10-20
---

A return from my blogging break... with more movies!
<!-- excerpt -->

## The Substance

{% imagebig "/assets/shortform/blog/20-10-24-movies/TheSubstance.jpg" %}

This movie was amazing and disgusting like all good body horror should be.

A horror movie where the main villain - the root of all the evil in the movie - is our societies insane beauty standards. A bold, feminist piece of fuck you led by the always excellent *Demi Moore* and *Margaret Qualley*. Featuring some truly shocking transformations for them and tons of gross out gore. I cannot recommend this movie enough. Make sure you watch it with a nice loud sound system, the foley work is next level good.

## V/H/S Beyond

{% imagebig "/assets/shortform/blog/20-10-24-movies/VHS_Beyond_Poster.jpg" %}

The 7th entry into the V/H/S series and Shudder's fourth take on it. This time the loose theme is "Cosmic Horror". 

Over all it's really good. *Mike Flanagan* written and *Kate Siegel* directed "Stowaway" is maybe a bit slow to start, but a super effective bit of cosmic horror. *Justin* and *Christian Long*'s Fur Babies is probably the low point of this entry but also has an extremely charismatic Kathy Bates in Misery lead - *Libby Letlow*. I'd love to see more of her in a horror or thriller setting. "Stork" is the most obvious entry to use as a jumping off point for a new standalone movie like Siren and Kids vs Aliens were. "Dream Girl" is the first Indian entry in this series, complete with awesome Bollywood-esque song and dance which I loved. Rounding it out is another *Radio Silence* feature called "Live and Let Dive" which is kind of a call back (in my opinion) to the GoPro zombie apocalypse in V/H/S 2. All in all it was a very solid set and probably my third favorite of these movies after the first two.

## The Pope's Exorcist

{% imagebig "/assets/shortform/blog/20-10-24-movies/ThePopesExorcist.png" %}

I liked it, but it's not amazing. Skip if you don't want spoilers.

High points: *Russell Crowe* as an Italian priest, complete with better than you'd think but still bad accent. Decent throw back to The Exorcist.

Low points: They spend awhile world building with a conspiracy to cover up that the Inquisition was actually the work of the Devil from an exorcist being possessed. It's fine but... eh. Boring.

Awesome: The film is relatively restrained till the last 10 minutes or so, at which point a naked woman (she's a demonic apparition) covered in blood shows up, attempts to strangle our main character's plucky Spanish priest sidekick, who then slaps a crucifix on her head, and after a Transformers like powering up noise explodes her into a shower of gore. *awesome*. I was so taken aback by the noise I immediately rewound it to make sure I did, in fact, hear that. Yup. Then it's used to send another apparition down into a pit of lava, complete with second powering up noise. **AWESOME**. I would describe this as going full "Fast and the Furious" (i.e. rule of cool is all that matters.) and I'm here for it.

We may be getting more sequels and I hope they double down on the absurdity of the last 10 minutes of this one.

## Troy

{% imagebig "/assets/shortform/blog/20-10-24-movies/Troy.jpg" %}

Yeah I know this is the odd one out, it's been a weird month okay?

I've never seen this. I get why it got grief when it came out, but also... I liked it. It was a fun sword and sandals movie with dumb melodrama, some scene chewing, and some halfway decent fight scenes. You could do worse. I won't be watching it again but I enjoyed my time with it. Also Brad Pitt is extremely moody and petulant in this and it made me laugh.

## End

I'll be back soon with some more blogs folks, I just finished up playing 20 games for Steam's Next Fest and will probably post about that next.