---
draft: true
permalink: /blog/{{ title | slugify }}/
tags: blogs,work,sql,rant
date: 2025-11-30
title: Work Is Different Now And It Sucks
excerpt: I'm just ranting about how unfair the working environment is and
  constantly getting passed over for promotion but then made to do the work
  anyways. Typical modern day bullshit.
---
I don't like the idea of ranting on my blog but I feel stuck at work.

I started working at my current employer in 2017 on an application support team. We troubleshot complicated issues with the primary function of our application (call and screen recording in a call center environment) which involved working closely with our internal IT, our vendor's IT, internal desktop support and helpdesk, and telecom. This was a pretty high volume, SLA and metrics driven production environment and I was rated on how many tickets I handled. Easy peasy - I was always at or in the top two performers of a team of ten to thirteen. But lo, behold, I shone too bright.

Six months in I'm fucking around during an overnight IT change trying to use Excel VBA to automate data pulls from Avaya CMS which was the application for pulling real time and historical data from our phone systems. If you ever find yourself in this situation: Don't. It's the wrong tool. Just because you can do it doesn't mean you should. We used it in troubleshooting configuration and usage issues on the phones that would affect our software working correctly. I got it to work.

Now my team was bifurcated - we had three people that handled projects and reporting, and then ten or so people that handled tickets, testing IT changes, the normal day to day work. I was on the day to day task team which was all hourly employees. I wasn't the worst paid on the team, but I made 18.50 an hour. The project team was all salary and were paid between 40k/yr and 56k/yr. I showed the project team this tool because it would make running the reports easier and the person making the most on that team took credit for my work. The other two members knew she was full of shit and let our management know but if they hadn't told me I never would have known this and importantly she was never punished or even said sorry to me for doing that. This is an omen for the future.

So I shine bright, they put me into the project team as a "stretch" role. I find out later that this company is notorious for leaving people in stretch roles for years at a time, paid significantly less and with lower benefits than they should get. It's against company policy but how much bullshit does your company do that they explicitly say shouldn't happen? Anyways, a job opens up because one of the reporting team moves on (the lowest paid member, to another too lowly paid position in the company but making more at least.) I apply and am told that I just don't have the soft skills for the position, I'm just not quite what they're looking for. My management was notorious for giving extremely vague instructions or asks and I was the only one that would spend time trying to figure out what the fuck they were trying to get out of us. That was my lack of soft skills: asking questions. So they hire someone else, who does precisely fuck all for the team because she never asks questions (and shouldn't have, clearly. I don't blame her) and I'm left in the stretch role unofficially for three years.

In 2021 they decide to split the team up by organization, we had a user base of 20,000 users or so. One group of 4,000 was going to get half the team. One group of 12,000 was going to get the other half of the team. A third group of, at the time, 2,300 or so requested me specifically and got me. Just so we're clear here : 4,000 people got 6 people. 12,000 people got 5 people. 2,300 got one person. All the other smaller groups had to furnish their own people to take on the work.

As part of this break up in theory my old team provided training for everyone... in reality they said they did and instead became the defacto contact to help everyone else out. During this time the group I was sent to was combined with another similarly sized group that had two of their normal supervisors doing the work I was doing in addition to their normal duties. Quickly I ended up absorbing their roles and now had about 4,000 people all to myself. During this time I'm making a bit under 22 dollars an hour and working about 43 hours a week on average with late night IT changes and general over time to manage the work of a team of five by my lonesome. They convert me to salary and the initial offer, because I had to apply for my own fucking position of course I did was 48,850/yr. Do the math (overtime at 1.5x after 40 hours a week) and that's less than I was making by a couple thousand dollars. Cue a months long fight to get 51k/yr which is basically what I was clearing before this "promotion" (which is how it they attempted to sell it to me) and... the annoyance just started growing. Eventually our internal reporting team in this new organization absorbed me and I started using my SQL knowledge to write new queries, create Tableau reports, set up automation using a program called Alteryx. My coworkers were paid north of 100k a year, I was paid 55k, then eventually 62k.

I should mention every single time I've had a promotion, a job transfer, any sort of increase in salary the company's internal "compensation department" has stepped in and said "no, it can only be y amount instead.".