---
draft: true
permalink: /blog/{{ title | slugify }}/
date: 2025-04-14
title: The Importance Of Gaming With The Homies
excerpt: On which I yammer on about why playing games with your friends is
  **important**.
---
I'm sitting here on a Sunday evening at the coffee shop with the kid. She's having some sort of milkshake-esque "coffee" monstrosity and surfing TikTok. I'm having black drip coffee _(because I've officially become an old man)_ and I'm thinking about video games. Specifically I'm reflecting on playing [R.E.P.O.](https://store.steampowered.com/app/3241660/REPO/) with my online friends last night. It's one of those very in and popular spooky games that are janky and the jank is at least part of the appeal. Terrible game to play solo, but multiplayer in R.E.P.O. really shines. Especially when you're not going to take it too seriously which like... why would you?

Spending time with your friends is important. It's easy to let things lapse as you get older and life just starts being a task of must/should/could-dos that get in the way of quality time with your friends. I had a beer with a buddy of mine, The Catman, on Friday and it was the first time we had seen each other in almost a year. We used to game a bit online and see each other regularly but work has taken up a lot of our time as we've graduated to management roles in our companies. Then there's the normal things - chores, family events, our partners... Time disappears quick and it's really easy to just not make time for your friends.

But... down that route lies sadness. I've been struggling with this for years between friends that disappear while in relationships, the kind of anxiety prone introvert I tend to collect as friends being... well what I just described, most of my male friends becoming obsessed with projects around the house (the ones that could afford to buy houses anyways), or people just rotting endlessly streaming things after a hard day's work. So one day, I find [this article on Polygon](https://www.polygon.com/24163967/gamer-night-how-to-find-time-for-video-games-schedule) and I start sending it to a bunch of my friends. A few of them have started game nights of their own on their discords or in person and you can see it strengthening and reinforcing friendships in real time. I play in some, I can't play in all of them due to timing (I wake up absurdly early) but I try to at least show up and shoot the shit for a bit.

One of the key ideas from that article is that consistency is important. Pick a time and day of the week that works, if you're doing a weekly get together, and just consistently do it. Works for monthly events as well. Walks in the park, hikes, getting a coffee/beer/soda, catching up over dinner, doing a movie night in person or via discord, these are all non gaming activities that you can do instead. The basic investment in quality time with friends is the important bit. And to be honest other than maybe just reminding people to make that investment in time with friends I don't know if I have a point to make here but that time investment in them is worth it.